---
title: "Summer Exploration Arc #1"
enableToc: false
---
## motivation
I've always wanted to document my growth over a period of time to see what I can accomplish on my own. This summer is an ideal place to start -- just after high school and before college, where I have enough agency to achieve my goals, without too much academic stress. I'm drawing motivation from this saying: 

> Most people overestimate what they can do in a day, but underestimate what they can do in a year.

My goals are the following:
- Learn about topics that I think I would enjoy
- Work on some small projects
- Build healthy habits
- Read more, write more
- Enjoy that summer sun

They are vague on purpose -- I'll have plenty of options that accomplish these tasks without feeling restricted to a particular path.

## starting point
### online classes
Before the fall semester starts, I want to do a bit of learning on my own. For the most part, I'm going to be reviewing old classes (linear algebra, data structures / algorithms) and exploring new classes (discrete math, artificial intelligence, signals and systems). This is for me to "test the waters" and try out things that are interesting to me.

### cool projects
I'm interested in making something for 3Blue1Brown's [Summer of Math Exposition #2 (SoME2)](https://youtu.be/hZuYICAEN9Y). I'm not particularly sure what knowledge I have to offer but I'm planning on something within the computer science or signal processing realm. 

I've also been interested in cybersecurity for the past few months, but never got around to actually learning more about it. Since I have more time now, I want to take advantage of some resources like [HackTheBox](https://hackthebox.com), [OverTheWire: Wargames](https://overthewire.org/wargames/), the [DEF CON CTF archive](https://archive.ooo/) to help me learn more. At the beginning of this year, my goal was to participate in the DEF CON 30 CTF qualifiers, but that has since passed -- my new goal is to take a shot at next year's qualifiers, but we'll see about that...

Among other things, I want to clean up my website better and get my wiki space set up.

## plan
My next update will be in two weeks. For the most part, I want to see where things will take me, so I don't really have a concrete schedule.