---
title: "ECE 537"
enableToc: false
---
(please refresh the page if the pdf doesn't load!)  
[Project 2](http://emilyyao.me/report2.pdf): Analyzing TCP and UDP traffic behavior over wireless networks  
[Project 3](http://emilyyao.me/report3.pdf): Estimating VBR/CBR based on packet capture

<!-- # context
**ECE 537: Communication Networks**. Overview of the TCP/IP protocol stack. Large focus on application transport layer protocols, congestion detection and avoidance; brief introduction to wireless networks, addressing/routing/forwarding, and media streaming.  -->

# context
During the Fall '22 semester, I took a class on the basics of computer networks. This page aims to provide insight on the motivation, process, and results for two of the larger assignments I completed during the course.

For each project, I was given a broad outline of a topic I should write a report on, and a list of steps on how to collect data for the report. For data collection, I learned to use a variety of tools, including but not limited to Wireshark, `iperf`, `rvictl`, Ubuntu, and [UTM](/utm-ubuntu) (for creating VMs on the new silicon chip Apple laptops). I wrote some Python scripts to make this process easier which can be found [here](https://github.com/heyitssqueak/pa2). 

I researched and collected data for a handful of different topics such as TCP/UDP transfer speed, TCP flavors, RTS/CTS signals, and variable/constant bitrates. An in-depth analysis and discussion of these topics can be found in their respective papers. 

<!-- Although, since the papers are somewhat long and dense, I want to highlight a few things that I discovered that I thought were cool. -->

# reflection
<!-- My biggest takeaway from this project is adaptability. Most of the tools I mentioned are specific to this kind of work and I had zero experience using them coming into these projects. Learning my way around these tools as I was working on an actual project showed me that I could learn as I go. 

I also found it interesting to be able to to collect data and observe processes that are part of a larger, ongoing network. I've only ever ran code in isolated projects which had no interaction with the world. I had full control over the environment and when issues came up, I could locate and fix the problem. This project was more about using tools to watch a network run, and if anomalies came up in my data, I couldn't just locate to the source of the error and fix it, I had to find work arounds.  -->

The part of the project that I found the most interesting was collecting data on the network in real time. A lot of the project-based assignments that I've come across are somewhat isolated -- you develop a small codebase on your own, and then it runs on your machine on a static and local copy of the data. While this is a great way to learn, I think it misses some aspects of the big picture. Analyzing the network data in real time was cool because it felt like my code was observing something far beyond itself. I have a lot of respect and admiration for the researchers who created the standards for these protocols to run efficiently on such a large scale.

Project-wise, I believe that there is more to be done which could improve the quality of these reports. There are some siginificant errors in Project 2 which affected the average throughput calculations, and my measurements for TCP channels in Project 3 were outright wrong. In Project 2, I tried to mention possible sources of error and bias and how I would correct for it in the future. I think those ideas are a good starting point and I would definitely encorporate stricter rules on how I collect data and correct for biases if I were to do this again.

That being said, I don't believe I will revisit these projects as they are now. My primary takeaway from these reports was learning how to use Wireshark, understanding the packet/traffic flow graphs, and utilizing command line tools and scripts. Redoing these projects would not teach me as much as they did the first time around. However, I am interested in learning how to use a Raspberry Pi, and I recently learned that you can install Wireshark on a Pi. It could be an interesting thing to work on in the future, maybe as a long-term data collection project, but I'd have to get my hands on a Pi first...